Many a thunkpiece has been written about how to make Slack (and similar things)
be productive rather than pestilent. These chat services are a revolutionary
way to handle how we collaborate and communicate with our teams, and it will
certainly take quite some time before we are able to learn how best to use
them.

Fortunately, we've had 28 years.

IRC has been a fantastic communication tool since 1988. And while Slack is
conceptually the exact same, it is a phenomenally more accessible experience
than IRC has ever been. Surely, many people who would not have bothered to get
into IRC because it is complicated and hideous have wound up using and enjoying
Slack. Given this, the guidelines of IRC are likely unfamiliar to many (if not
most) Slack users. I think a review of those rules, both for those new to
chatrooms and veterans, is a great way to inform the etiquette in your
organization.

# 1. Just stop with @channel already
The IRC equivalent of `@channel` is pinging (saying the name of) every single
person in the room. In nearly every IRC channel, this will get you thrown out
immediately, and probably banned.

The reason for this is easy to understand. When you ping someone, you are
giving them an alert. Depending on how they have things set up, this could be
anything from a little marker next to the channel to buzzing their phone.
Regardless, it's distracting. And if you're distracting someone for something
they don't need to see right away, you're hurting their productivity.

Slack does have the ability to ping just people who are actually online
(`@here`), which is an improvement, but still noisy. It's also possible to turn
off `@channel` notifications for a channel, though you shouldn't rely on people
having done that. A lesser-known feature is the ability to add groups of users,
and ping them. `@devops`, for example, might ping all the members of your
devops team who are in the channel, though you should still be sure that you
actually need to ping _all_ of them. Maybe if the server is on fireâ€¦

# 2. Don't PM if there's a channel for it
It can be tempting to private message the person you know knows everything, or
just the person you're used to talking about an issue or product. However,
again, you're giving them an alert that they then have to decide whether to
ignore. What's worse, you're hurting _yourself_, too! Chances are, even if that
person _does_ know everything, there are other people who also know the thing
you're actually asking about. If there's a channel set up for talking about
something, you can ask there and get an answer from whoever might happen to be
available. You don't have to wait for that one person to have time to respond.

This isn't to say "never PM ever", just make sure that what you're saying
actually needs to be with only that one person.

# 3. Don't ask to ask, just ask
In face-to-face communication, you are probably in the habit of saying "hey,
can I ask you a question?" or something. It lets you make sure the person has
noticed you, and is listening when you ask the question. But in chat, the
person doesn't need to be paying attention when you ask the question. They can
read it when they have time. What's more, instead of being able to answer your
question when it's convenient, they have to then ask you what your question is,
and then wait for you to actually ask it. You've just wasted your and the other
person's time in the interest of a politeness that doesn't really apply.
